# NiDar--A-Women-Safety-Application

Safety is the primary concern for our daughters, wife, and sisters. With the development in society, women are empowering and contributing in the different fields of science and technology. For the soul purpose of working in multiple sectors, they need to travel every now and then. In such a scenario their safety is the prime concern.” The amount of violence against women has increased by many folds due to the greater exposure of women in every field of life. Women were previously restricted to the four walls of the houses and after globalization they have got the chances and opportunities to stand equally in all sectors at par with male. Women are exploring themselves in the various arena in this world and yet are facing many challenges and threats in their fields. Women security has become a major concern in the recent times as woman is not highly strong as men to protect herself from them. Many a times women are not able to activate application for help in such a situation. Therefore, this application will be giving the right to the emergency contact to access the camera of user while she is travelling alone (only if she gives permission). 


Women Safety Application called as “NiDar,” is a Hindi word which means fearless is intended to improve the situation. With this app user can contact their loved ones in case of emergency. User can also track its current location using GPS and can also find the safe path to travel for their destination. There is an option of playing siren so that a fake attempt can be made to draw attention. This app can take image from front camera and back camera and send it to the emergency contact lists previously stored by user along with the current location of the victim. At times there is no emergency but to be cautious we want to know the safest route for our destination. In such a situation this app can access your current location and your destination and calculate the safe route for you. Gender-based violence has become a national and global issue because of decades of civil society activism, assisted by women's organization. Even though each country has an extraordinary number of laws against domestic violence, sexual assault, and other forms of violence to protect its female citizens from such abuse, enforcing these laws is extremely difficult. But with our app using the latest technology, it will become easier and more convenient to safeguard our women with this type of situation. Women who are victims of abuse are often denied basic human rights. The basic problem towards the women protection is with the police handling of these occurrences is that they are not always able to respond swiftly to distress calls. 

These limitations include not knowing the location of the crime and not knowing the crime is occurring at all: it is difficult for the victim to call the police confidently and quietly. To aid in the removal of these prohibitions. This app presents the Women’s Safety Application, a smartphone app that provides a reliable way for women to let the closed ones know about them in an emergency or take some help in the unwanted situation. Secondly this, app is supportable of Hindi language along with English language that can be equally useful for those who understand little or no English at all. 

## Here are the screenshots of our application


